# PowerBI_projects
 #  Revenue insights in hospitality Domain

## Dashboard Link : https://app.powerbi.com/groups/me/reports/bdfc1fd0-7e3d-4256-a91e-54b7a4c4cbed/bbad9920501ca0738286?experience=power-bi

## Problem Statement

 AtliQ Grands owns multiple five-star hotels across India. They have been in the hospitality industry for the past 20 years. Due to strategic moves from other competitors and ineffective decision-making in management, AtliQ Grands are losing its market share and revenue in the luxury/business hotels category. As a strategic move, the managing director of AtliQ Grands wanted to incorporate “Business and Data Intelligence” to regain their market share and revenue. However, they do not have an in-house data analytics team to provide them with these insights.

 # meta information regarding the 5 tables

1. dim_date
2. dim_hotels
3. dim_rooms
4. fact_aggregated_bookings
5. fact_bookings 

 - dim_date:

1. date: This column represents the dates present in May, June and July.
2. mmm yy: This column represents the date in the format of mmm yy (monthname year).
3. week no: This column represents the unique week number for that particular date.
4. day_type: This column represents whether the given day is Weekend or Weekeday.

- dim_hotels:
1. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
2. property_name: This column represents the name of each hotel.
3. category: This column determines which class[Luxury, Business] a particular hotel/property belongs to. 
4. city: This column represents where the particular hotel/property resides in.

- dim_rooms:
1. room_id: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
2. room_class: This column represents to which class[Standard, Elite, Premium, Presidential] particular room type belongs.

- fact_aggregated_bookings:
1. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels.
2. check_in_date: This column represents all the check_in_dates of the customers.
3. room_category: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
4. successful_bookings: This column represents all the successful room bookings that happen for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.
5. capacity: This column represents the maximum count of rooms available for a particular room type in that hotel on that particular date.

- fact_bookings:
1. booking_id: This column represents the Unique Booking ID for each customer when they booked their rooms.
2. property_id: This column represents the Unique ID for each of the hotels
3. booking_date: This column represents the date on which the customer booked their rooms.
4. check_in_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-in(entered) at the hotel.
5. check_out_date: This column represents the date on which the customer check-out(left) of the hotel.
6. no_guests: This column represents the number of guests who stayed in a particular room in that hotel.
7. room_category: This column represents the type of room[RT1, RT2, RT3, RT4] in a hotel.
8. booking_platform: This column represents in which way the customer booked his room.
9. ratings_given: This column represents the ratings given by the customer for hotel services.
10. booking_status: This column represents whether the customer cancelled his booking[Cancelled], successfully stayed in the hotel[Checked Out] or booked his room but not stayed in the hotel[No show].
11. revenue_generated: This column represents the amount of money generated by the hotel from a particular customer.
12. revenue_realized: This column represents the final amount of money that goes to the hotel based on booking status. If the booking status is cancelled, then 40% of the revenue generated is deducted and the remaining is refunded to the customer. If the booking status is Checked Out/No show, then full revenue generated will goes to hotels.

 # key metrics 
 1. Revenue :
    sum of revenue realized
 
 2. ADR(Average Daily rate) :
    It is the ratio of revenue to the total rooms booked/sold. 
    It is the measure of the average paid for rooms sold in a given time period
 
 3.Occupancy % :
    Occupancy means total successful bookings happened to the 
    total rooms available(capacity)"
 
 4.Realisation % :
    It is nothing but the successful ""checked out"" percentage over all bookings happened.
 
 5. RevPAR(Revenue Per Available Room) :
    RevPAR represents the revenue generated per available room, whether or not they are occupied.
    RevPAR helps hotels measure their revenue generating performance to 
    accurately price rooms. RevPAR can help hotels measure themselves against other properties or brands.
 
 6.DBRN(Daily Booked Room Nights) :
    This metrics tells on average how many rooms are booked for a day considering a time period
 
 7.DSRN(Daily Sellable Room Nights) :
    This metrics tells on average how many rooms are ready to sell for a day considering a time period

8.DURN(Daily Utilized Room Nights) :
    This metric tells on average how many rooms are successfully utilized by customers for a day considering a time period



